hi this is Peter from the DJ podcast
welcome to the first video in our DJ
marketing 101 video of course this is a
free course and if you haven't signed up
already you can do so at the DJ
podcast.com slash newsletter now when it
comes to marketing and promoting
yourself whether that's online and print
on television on the radio you need to
have a strong foundation that you can
build from and for DJ's that all starts
with your DJ name so in this video we're
going to be looking at the do's and
don'ts of choosing a DJ name so here are
three things that you might want to
consider doing when choosing a DJ name
the first is that you can always just
use your real name so if you don't wanna
use an alias you can either use your
name as it is or you can tag DJ on to
the front of it that's what I do and
that's what many others do as well now
if you have a really common name
something like John Smith you may want
to change it up a little bit you could
do some letters around you can use part
of your name or you can use part of your
name and make up the rest any way that
you can stand out from the crowd is
really good now I wanted to think of a
DJ name you want to pick something that
you can imagine yourself using for a
long time
ideally you want to pick name and stick
with it now a lot of big-name DJ's have
used aliases over the years but they
still stick to one name that they get
most popular with so you want to pick
something that it's going to stand the
test of time and one way to do that
would be to pick a name that is very
personal to you and something that
relates to your personality for example
if you were a really high energy and
upbeat person maybe you pick a name like
high beats one thing that you don't want
to do though is pick something that's
very specific to the time right now so
if you were 13 and you play dubstep you
might think of the name dubstep kid
however 10 years down the road when
you're 23 and playing techno that name
might not necessarily work so well for
you so now that I've gone over three
things that you should consider doing
here are three things that I would
recommend against doing and the first is
choosing a name that
someone is already using this should be
pretty self-explanatory if someone's
been using a name for a long time
they've been building up their fan base
and gaining in popularity if you try and
come in now not only will you look like
a copycat but also you're gonna have a
really hard time differentiating
yourself from them so try and pick
something that's unique and original to
you now when you're coming up with an
original name you don't want to be
offensive now of course there's gonna be
people that are offended by anything so
you don't necessarily want to think
about the extremes but you definitely
don't want to use derogatory slang or
words or connotations that a mass
general audience won't want to associate
themselves with you have to think about
the future where you might be
interviewed by people on television or
on the radio or where your name is going
to be printed on promotional materials
and you don't want your name to have a
negative association with it so don't
pick something that's gonna offend
people now the last thing is that you
shouldn't forget about social media a
lot of promotion online is on sites like
Twitter and Facebook and you want to
make sure that you have a name that
isn't already taken now there are a
couple of different websites that allow
you to quickly look and see if a name is
taken on a bunch of different social
media sites my paper one is named chk
comm all you have to do is go there and
type in the name that you like and it
will tell you if the vanity URL or sites
like Twitter and Facebook are available
so those are my three do's and don'ts
for choosing a dj name now one thing
that's really important about this video
course is that each week we're gonna
have tasks that you can complete leading
up to next week's video and this week's
task is to choose your dj name that you
can use while promoting and marketing
yourself going forward now if you
already have a DJ name chosen and you're
watching this on YouTube go ahead and
leave a comment below and share how you
got your name so that you might be able
to help others that are struggling with
their own in our next video we're going
to talk about why Twitter is so
important for DJs
and why you should create a facebook
fanpage thanks for watching